Name	Symbol	Description
DataValue	ANY	 Defines the basic properties of every data value. This is an abstract type, meaning that no value can be just a data value without belonging to any concrete type. Every concrete type is a specialization of this general abstract DataValue type.
Boolean	BL	 The Boolean type stands for the values of two-valued logic. A Boolean value can be either true or false, or, as any other value may be NULL.
Encapsulated Data	ED	 Data that is primarily intended for human interpretation or for further machine processing outside the scope of HL7. This includes unformatted or formatted written language, multimedia data, or structured information in as defined by a different standard (e.g., XML-signatures.) Instead of the data itself, an ED may contain only a reference (see TEL.) Note that the ST data type is a specialization of the ED data type when the ED media type is text/plain.
Character String	ST	 The character string data type stands for text data, primarily intended for machine processing (e.g., sorting, querying, indexing, etc.) Used for names, symbols, and formal expressions.
Concept Descriptor	CD	 A concept descriptor represents any kind of concept usually by giving a code defined in a code system. A concept descriptor can contain the original text or phrase that served as the basis of the coding and one or more translations into different coding systems. A concept descriptor can also contain qualifiers to describe, e.g., the concept of a "left foot" as a postcoordinated term built from the primary code "FOOT" and the qualifier "LEFT". In exceptional cases, the concept descriptor need not contain a code but only the original text describing that concept.
Coded Simple Value	CS	 Coded data in its simplest form, where only the code and display name is not predetermined. The code system and code system version is fixed by the context in which the CS value occurs. CS is used for coded attributes that have a single HL7-defined value set.
Coded With Equivalents	CE	 Coded data that consists of a coded value (CV) and, optionally, coded value(s) from other coding systems that identify the same concept. Used when alternative codes may exist.
Character String with Code	SC	 A Character String that optionally may have a code attached. The text must always be present if a code is present. The code is often a local code.
Instance Identifier	II	 An identifier that uniquely identifies a thing or object. Examples are object identifier for HL7 RIM objects, medical record number, order id, service catalog item id, Vehicle Identification Number (VIN), etc. Instance identifiers are defined based on ISO object identifiers.
Telecommunication Address	TEL	 A telephone number (voice or fax), e-mail address, or other locator for a resource mediated by telecommunication equipment. The address is specified as a Universal Resource Locator (URL) qualified by time specification and use codes that help deciding which address to use for a given time and purpose.
Postal Address	AD	 Mailing and home or office addresses. A sequence of address parts, such as street or post office Box, city, postal code, country, etc.
Entity Name	EN	 A name for a person, organization, place or thing. A sequence of name parts, such as first name or family name, prefix, suffix, etc. Examples for entity name values are "Jim Bob Walton, Jr.", "Health Level Seven, Inc.", "Lake Tahoe", etc. An entity name may be as simple as a character string or may consist of several entity name parts, such as, "Jim", "Bob", "Walton", and "Jr.", "Health Level Seven" and "Inc.", "Lake" and "Tahoe".
Trivial Name	TN	 A restriction of entity name that is effectively a simple string used for a simple name for things and places.
Person Name	PN	 A name for a person. A sequence of name parts, such as first name or family name, prefix, suffix, etc.
Organization Name	ON	 A name for an organization. A sequence of name parts.
Integer Number	INT	 Integer numbers (-1,0,1,2, 100, 3398129, etc.) are precise numbers that are results of counting and enumerating. Integer numbers are discrete, the set of integers is infinite but countable. No arbitrary limit is imposed on the range of integer numbers. Two NULL flavors are defined for the positive and negative infinity.
Real Number	REAL	 Fractional numbers. Typically used whenever quantities are measured, estimated, or computed from other real numbers. The typical representation is decimal, where the number of significant decimal digits is known as the precision.
Ratio	RTO	 A quantity constructed as the quotient of a numerator quantity divided by a denominator quantity. Common factors in the numerator and denominator are not automatically cancelled out. The RTO data type supports titers (e.g., "1:128") and other quantities produced by laboratories that truly represent ratios. Ratios are not simply "structured numerics", particularly blood pressure measurements (e.g. "120/60") are not ratios. In many cases the REAL should be used instead of the RTO.
Physical Quantity	PQ	 A dimensioned quantity expressing the result of measuring.
Monetary Amount	MO	 A monetary amount is a quantity expressing the amount of money in some currency. Currencies are the units in which monetary amounts are denominated in different economic regions. While the monetary amount is a single kind of quantity (money) the exchange rates between the different units are variable. This is the principal difference between physical quantity and monetary amounts, and the reason why currency units are not physical units.
Point in Time	TS	 A quantity specifying a point on the axis of natural time. A point in time is most often represented as a calendar expression.
Set	SET	 A value that contains other distinct values in no particular order.
Sequence	LIST	 A value that contains other discrete values in a defined sequence.
Bag	BAG	 An unordered collection of values, where each value can be contained more than once in the bag.
Interval	IVL	 A set of consecutive values of an ordered base data type.
History	HIST	 A set of data values that conform to the history item (HXIT) type, (i.e., that have a valid-time property). The history information is not limited to the past; expected future values can also appear.
Uncertain Value - Probabilistic	UVP	 A generic data type extension used to specify a probability expressing the information producer's belief that the given value holds.
Parametric Probability Distribution	PPD	 A generic data type extension specifying uncertainty of quantitative data using a distribution function and its parameters. Aside from the specific parameters of the distribution, a mean (expected value) and standard deviation is always given to help maintain a minimum layer of interoperability if receiving applications cannot deal with a certain probability distribution.
General Timing Specification	GTS	 A set of points in time, specifying the timing of events and actions and the cyclical validity-patterns that may exist for certain kinds of information, such as phone numbers (evening, daytime), addresses (so called "snowbirds," residing in the south during winter and north during summer) and office hours.